
**#North-Point Software Production Company: Customer Classification & Prediction**

North-Point is a software production company that sells games and educational products. Recently, it has updated its list of items and is preparing to introduce these new items to customers through mailing campaigns. Along with the products customers are its main other assets. To increase its customer base north-point company joined a consortium pool of listing firms. In this consortium, companies can exchange customers details. North-point company shared 200,000 customers details with the pool and received the 200,000 customers randomly. Its known fact that all customers that randomly selected from the pool won’t make a purchase. So north-point company run a test that select 20,000 customers and mailed its products to all the 20,000 customers. But only 1065 customers responded to the mail and made purchase. So, with the collected data north-point want to use the predictive analysis to select potential customers from the remaining 180,000 customer. As the available data is un balanced the company decided to work on a sample set of only 2000 customers details by oversampling the data. The oversampled data is divided into train, validation and test splits. After trying with different models, it is found that forward selection logistic model is best model for predicting the probability of the customer becoming purchaser and forward selection model is the best model for predicting the spending amount of the customer for a purchase. By using the models, the spending amount and probability is predicted, as the data is oversampled probability and predicted value is adjusted back to original state for the test partition and plotted the decile lift chart. From the decile chart it is clear that selecting top 10% high spending customers from model will gain 4.17 times profit. So North-point company can use the model to select only 10% customer and mail the products list to those selected customer which will gain more profit with less investing amount.



